Gitsucker

This is a script to find and rank all people who forked a particular project on GitHub according to the following criteria:

* number of original projects they've authored
* number of ruby or javascript projects they have authored or forked
* number of orignal or forked projects they have

API requests to github may, depending on your network bandwidth and latency, take quite a bit of time to complete, so this script attempts to run the requests concurrently. The number of concurrent requests is limited (option -n). You can set the limit to whatever, but generally I would not recommend running more than 10 threads at the same time in order to avoid potential I/O issues.

The output produced is a CSV file - feel free to import this into Excell and sort in any direction you like :)



Installation:

The script uses the py-github module for hanling API. You can install that by cloning it's repository:

git clone https://github.com/dustin/py-github.git github

... and installing it on your system:

cd github
sudo python setup.py install



Usage example:

python gitsucker.py -n 5 py-github

This will attempt to get the data for all users who forked py-github and will run up to 5 concurrent API requests at any time.



Known issues:

* Sometimes the API returns 403 Forbidden on certain requests. I'm not entirelly sure as for why this happens, but I've noticed that this isn't deterministic either: the same request may respond with data and sometimes - with an error. It would require more time to investigate this fully. However, this only tends to happen with larger projects (e.g. backbone). Failed request for a user is handled nicely: the script just ignores that user (acknowledging the failure). If the repo search or the repo network request fails - well, there isn't much you can do about it. Just run the program again...
* This script relies on the repository search function in order to find a project of interest without knowing it's author's username (as in the task description). Currently this function is ony supported in API v2 and generally, I believe, isn't overly efficient. Furthermore, Github API v2 is going to be switched off soon in favour of API v3. In order to perform the same task using API v3 the user of gitsucker would have to supply the name of the repo author as well as the project name. I don't see a problem with this: you can find the name of any (public) repository author on the github website. My recommendation would be to revise the task description and replace the following line:

"1. Type in gitsucker <project_name> (eg. gitsucker backbone)"

with

"1. Type in gitsucker <username> <project_name> (eg. gitsucker documentcloud backbone)"